---
title: 'EPSRC-funded Postdoctoral Position (30 months) (closed)'
date: 2023-02-15
permalink: /posts/2023/02/postdoc/
tags:
  - jobs
---

I would like to advertise x1 postdoc position in Statistical Physics of Active Matter in the School of Mathematics and Statistics at The Open University, United Kingdom.

The aim of this project is to combine microscopic modelling and simulations (e.g. Brownian dynamics) with continuum theory (e.g. soft glass rheology and statistical field theory) to study the macroscopic properties of growing and active living matter such as biological tissues and biofilms

Candidate will also be expected to develop their own professional skills, such as supervising undergraduate research project, delivering graduate lectures, participating in outreach activities, and/or applying external/internal funding under the guidance from the supervisor. 

The post is funded by my EPSRC grant, `Thermodynamics of Growing Active and Living Matter’ for 30 months and is available with a flexible start date from 1st August 2023. (extension is possible under extraordinary circumstances)

For non UK-residents: We will reimburse the UK Worker’s Visa fee for the candidate, but unfortunately we will not be able to reimburse Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS), or the Visa and IHS costs for their partner/family. However, the University can offer interest-free loan if they wish to.

About the School: We are a relatively small but friendly department and provide an inclusive and supportive environment for everyone to achieve their best potentials. In recent years, we also had few successes in securing external funding such as two EPSRC Research Fellowships and several EPSRC standard grants.

To apply click [here] (deadline 15th March 2023).

[here]: https://www.open.ac.uk/about/employment/vacancies/pdra-applied-mathematicstheoretical-physics-20757


